Columnar data docs - native data interface serialization (#788)
PowerGridModel/power-grid-model: docs/advanced_documentation/native-data-interface.md

node['u_rated'] = [150e3, 10e3]
```

## Columnar data format

> We can also represent the contents mentioned `NodeInput` struct in [Structured Array](#structured-array) for only specific attributes.

Reviewer: maybe better to start a paragraph with something other than `also`

> This is especially useful when the component in question is for example a transformer which has many default attributes in which case the user can save on a significant amount of memory. Hence we can term it into `NodeInputUrated` which is of `double` type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is especially useful when the component in question, e.g., a transformer, has many default attributes. In that case, the user can save significantly on memory usage. Hence, we can term it into `NodeInputURated` which is of `double` type. 
```

> (Note again, its representation in C++ is not similar to that of `NodeInputUrated`). 

Reviewer: not sure if we should mention `NodeInputURated` as a type as such, though. maybe just plain old `double` is better

```suggestion
(Note again, its representation in C++ is not similar to that of `NodeInputURated`). 
```

One can create a `std::vector<NodeInputUrated>` to hold input for multiple nodes.
In a similar example we create attribute data with `u_rated` of two nodes of 150 kV and 10 kV.

```c++

> std::vector<NodeInputUrated> node_u_rated_input{ 150e3 , 10e3 };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using NodeInputURated = double;
std::vector<NodeInputURated> node_u_rated_input{ 150.0e3 , 10.0e3 };
```

```
Similar would be the case for `NodeInputId` and `std::vector<NodeNodeInputId>`

> To recreate this in numpy array, we should create it with the specific dtype as  mentioned in [Structured Array](#structured-array) for each attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To recreate this in Python using NumPy arrays, we should create it with the correct dtype - as mentioned in [Structured Array](#structured-array) - for each attribute.
```

```python

> node_id = np.empty(shape=2, dtype=node_dtype["id"])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node_dtype = power_grid_meta_data[DatasetType.input][ComponentType.node].dtype
node_id = np.empty(shape=2, dtype=node_dtype["id"])
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe then explicitly mention it where the Meta-data Helper Module is brought up, together with the use of `initialize_array` for columnar data.

node_id['id'] = [1, 2]
node_u_rated = np.empty(shape=2, dtype=node_dtype["u_rated"])
node_u_rated['u_rated'] = [150e3, 10e3]
```

## Creating Dataset

We further save this array into a dictionary.
With other types of components, the dictionary is a valid input dataset for the constructor of `PowerGridModel`,
see [Python API Reference](../api_reference/python-api-reference.md).

> For a row based data format,

Reviewer: by convention, please add a whiteline before and after every code block

node['u_rated'] = [150e3, 10e3]
```

## Columnar data format

We can also represent the contents mentioned `NodeInput` struct in [Structured Array](#structured-array) for only specific attributes.

> This is especially useful when the component in question, e.g., a transformer, has many default attributes. In that case, the user can save significantly on memory usage. Hence, we can term it into `NodeInputURated` which is of `double` type. 
> (Note again, its representation in C++ is not similar to that of `NodeInputURated`). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is especially useful when the component in question, e.g., a transformer, has many default attributes. In that case, the user can save significantly on memory usage. Hence, we can term it into `NodeInputURated` which is of `double` type (note again, its representation in C++ is different to that of `NodeInputURated`). 
```

> One can create a `std::vector<NodeInputUrated>` to hold input for multiple nodes.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: Is it `NoteInputURated` or `NodeInputUrated`? Just for consistency.

```python
from power_grid_model import ComponentType, DatasetType, power_grid_meta_data

> transformer_dtype = power_grid_meta_data[DatasetType.input][ComponentType.transformer]['dtype']

Reviewer: shouldn't it be
```suggestion
transformer_dtype = power_grid_meta_data[DatasetType.input][ComponentType.transformer].dtype
```
?

Author: It can be accessed both ways. Was sticking to what was originally used.

transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=transformer_dtype)
transformer_tap_pos = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=transformer_dtype["tap_pos"])

# direct string access is supported as well:

> # transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=power_grid_meta_data['input']['transformer']['dtype'])

Author: ```suggestion
# transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=power_grid_meta_data['input']['transformer'].dtype)
```

```python
from power_grid_model import ComponentType, DatasetType, power_grid_meta_data

transformer_dtype = power_grid_meta_data[DatasetType.input][ComponentType.transformer].dtype
# Array for row based data
transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=transformer_dtype)
# Array for columnar data
transformer_tap_pos = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=transformer_dtype["tap_pos"])

# direct string access is supported as well:

> # transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=power_grid_meta_data['input']['transformer'].dtype)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# transformer = np.empty(shape=5, dtype=power_grid_meta_data[DatasetType.input][ComponentType.transformer].dtype)
```
